docs/data-upload.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 8
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# 📤 Get Your Data into Vela Quickly

Upload your call and chat data to start analyzing customer interactions and improving team performance. This guide shows you the fastest ways to get your data into Vela and start seeing insights.

## 🎯 What You Can Achieve

By uploading your data to Vela, you can:
- [ ] **Analyze every customer interaction** automatically
- [ ] **Identify patterns and trends** across your team
- [ ] **Spot training opportunities** for agents
- [ ] **Track customer satisfaction** over time
- [ ] **Generate insights** that improve your business

---

## 🚀 Choose Your Upload Method

### Option 1: Manual Upload (Recommended for New Users)
**Best for**: Getting started quickly with existing call files

#### Step-by-Step Process

![ Upload](../img/screenshots/data_upload/upload.png)
![ Upload](../img/screenshots/data_upload/upload2.png)
![ Upload](../img/screenshots/data_upload/upload3.png)

- [ ] **Go to "Calls"** in the left sidebar
- [ ] **Click "Upload"** button
- [ ] **Select your call files** - We support mp3,wave & zip formats (bulk upload)
- [ ] **Click "Upload"** and wait for processing

> 💡 **Why this matters**: You can start analyzing your data immediately without any technical setup.

### Option 2: FTP Integration (For Larger Organizations)
**Best for**: Organizations with automated call recording systems


#### Setup Process
- [ ] **Contact your Vela Account Manager** to set up FTP integration
- [ ] **Provide FTP credentials** for your call recording server
- [ ] **Configure automatic sync** - Data flows automatically

> 💡 **Why this matters**: Once set up, your data flows automatically without manual intervention.

---

## 📋 Supported Data Formats

### Call Recordings
| **Format Type** | **Supported Formats** | **File Size Limit** |
|-----------------|---------------------|-------------------|
| **Audio formats** | WAV, MP3 | Up to 1 GB per upload |
| **Batch uploads** | Multiple files at once / zipped files | Up to 3 GB per upload |

### Chat Data
| **Format Type** | **Supported Formats** | **Requirements** |
|-----------------|---------------------|------------------|
| **Text formats** | JSON | Structured data with timestamps |
| **Structured data** | Agent and customer messages | Sender, timestamp, message content |
| **Metadata** | Session information | Agent IDs, customer IDs |

### Data Requirements
- [ ] **Call recordings**: Clear audio quality for best transcription
- [ ] **Chat data**: Properly formatted with sender, timestamp, and message content
- [ ] **Metadata**: Agent information, call dates, customer IDs (if available)

---

## 🛠️ Getting Started with Manual Upload

Follow these simple steps to upload your call recordings and start analyzing customer interactions in Vela.

### Step 1: Prepare Your Files
Before uploading, ensure your files are ready for optimal processing:

- [ ] **Organize your call recordings** in a dedicated folder for easy access
- [ ] **Verify file formats** - We support WAV, MP3, and ZIP files for bulk uploads
- [ ] **Check file sizes** - Individual files should be under 1 GB for best performance
- [ ] **Ensure audio quality** - Clear recordings provide better transcription results
- [ ] **Optional**: Create a ZIP file containing multiple recordings for batch upload

> 💡 **Pro Tip**: Name your files descriptively (e.g., "Agent_John_Call_2024-01-15.wav") to help with organization later.

### Step 2: Upload Your Data
Upload your files through Vela's interface:

- [ ] **Navigate to "Calls"** in the left sidebar of your Vela dashboard
- [ ] **Click the "Upload" button** in the top-right corner of the Calls page
- [ ] **Choose your upload method**:
  - **Single file**: Click "Choose File" and select individual recordings
  - **Multiple files**: Use "Batch Upload" to select multiple files at once
  - **Drag & Drop**: Simply drag files from your computer directly into the upload area
- [ ] **Review the upload summary** showing file names, sizes, and formats
- [ ] **Click "Upload"** to begin the upload process

> 🎯 **What happens next**: Your files will be securely uploaded and queued for processing.

### Step 3: Monitor Processing
Track the progress of your uploads and processing:

- [ ] **Watch the upload progress** - Real-time progress bars show upload status
- [ ] **Check processing status** in the Calls section - Files will show "Processing" status
- [ ] **Start analyzing** - Click on processed calls to view transcripts, insights, and analytics

> ⏱️ **Processing times**: Small files (< 10 MB) process in 15-30 minutes, larger files may take 1-2 hours.

### Step 4: Verify and Optimize
Ensure your data is ready for analysis:

- [ ] **Review transcriptions** for accuracy and completeness
- [ ] **Check metadata** - Agent information, timestamps, and call details
- [ ] **Explore insights** - View sentiment analysis, key topics, and performance metrics
- [ ] **Set up notifications** - Configure alerts for new uploads and processing completion

---

## 🔧 Setting Up Automated Uploads

### For Organizations with Existing Systems

| **Step** | **Action** | **Details** |
|----------|------------|-------------|
| **1** | **Contact your Vela Account Manager** | Provide system details and requirements |
| **2** | **Provide system details** | Call recording system type, data storage location, current data format |
| **3** | **Set up integration** | We'll configure the connection |
| **4** | **Test the connection** | Ensure data flows correctly |
| **5** | **Go live** | Automated uploads begin |

### Integration Options
| **Integration Type** | **Best For** | **Setup Complexity** |
|---------------------|--------------|---------------------|
| **FTP/SFTP servers** | Direct file transfer | Medium |
| **Cloud storage** | AWS S3, Google Cloud, Azure | Low |
| **API integration** | Custom data feeds | High |


---

## 🔌 API Integration for Developers

### Upload Call Recordings via API
For organizations with custom systems, use our API to upload data programmatically:

**Endpoint**: `https://api.botlhale.xyz/asr/async/upload/vela`

**Required Parameters**:
- `org_id` - Your organization identifier
- `file` - Audio file (WAV, MP3, M4A, FLAC)
- `metadata` - Call information (optional)

**Example Request**:
```python
import requests

url = "https://api.botlhale.xyz/v1/asr/async/upload/vela"
headers = {
    "Authorization": "Bearer YOUR_API_TOKEN"
}

files = {
    'file': open('call_recording.wav', 'rb')
}

data = {
    'org_id': 'your_org_id',
    'metadata': '{"agent_id": "123", "customer_id": "456"}'
}

response = requests.post(url, headers=headers, files=files, data=data)
print(response.json())
```

### Upload Chat Data via API
**Endpoint**: `https://api.botlhale.xyz/chat/upload`

**Example Request**:
```python
import requests
import json

url = "https://api.botlhale.xyz/v1/chat/upload"
headers = {
    "Authorization": "Bearer YOUR_API_TOKEN",
    "Content-Type": "application/json"
}

chat_data = {
    "org_id": "your_org_id",
    "conversation": [
        {
            "sender": "agent",
            "message": "Hello, how can I help you today?",
            "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z",
        },
        {
            "sender": "customer",
            "message": "I have a question about my account",
            "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:31:00Z",
        }
    ]
}

response = requests.post(url, headers=headers, json=chat_data)
print(response.json())
```

---

## ⏱️ Data Processing Timeline

### Typical Processing Times
| **File Size** | **Processing Time** | **What Happens** |
|---------------|-------------------|------------------|
| **Small files** (< 10 MB) | **15-30 minutes** | Transcription, analysis, insights generation |
| **Medium files** (10-100 MB) | **30-60 minutes** | Full processing with detailed analysis |
| **Large files** (> 100 MB) | **1-2 hours** | Comprehensive analysis with all features |

### Factors Affecting Processing Time
- [ ] **File size** - Larger files take longer to process
- [ ] **Audio quality** - Clear audio processes faster
- [ ] **System load** - Peak times may be slower
- [ ] **Analysis depth** - More detailed analysis requires more time

---



### Troubleshooting Upload Issues
| **Problem** | **Common Cause** | **Solution** |
|-------------|------------------|--------------|
| **Upload fails** | File too large, unsupported format | Check file size and format requirements |
| **Processing fails** | Poor audio quality, corrupted file | Verify file integrity and audio quality |
| **Slow processing** | Large files, system load | Wait for completion or try during off-peak hours |

---

## 📊 Data Quality Best Practices

### Before Upload
- [ ] **Check audio quality** - Clear, audible recordings work best
- [ ] **Verify file formats** - Use supported formats for best results
- [ ] **Organize files** - Group related recordings together
- [ ] **Include metadata** - Agent IDs, customer IDs, timestamps

### After Upload
- [ ] **Review processing results** - Check for any issues
- [ ] **Verify data accuracy** - Ensure transcripts are correct
- [ ] **Monitor insights** - Look for patterns and trends
- [ ] **Optimize processes** - Improve efficiency over time

---

## 🔗 Next Steps

| **For Data Monitoring** | **For Analysis** |
|------------------------|------------------|
| [📊 Monitor Performance](./dashboard.md) | [📞 Analyze Calls](./calls.md) |

## 🆘 Need Help?

- 📧 **Contact Support**: support@botlhale.ai
- 📚 **Navigation Guide**: [Find the right documentation](./navigation-guide.md) for your needs

Commit message:

docs: convert American English spellings to UK English
- customize → customise
- analyze → analyse
- center → centre
- behavior → behaviour
- optimize → optimise
- organization → organisation

docs/data-upload.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 8
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# 📤 Get Your Data into Vela Quickly

Upload your call and chat data to start analyzing customer interactions and improving team performance. This guide shows you the fastest ways to get your data into Vela and start seeing insights.

## 🎯 What You Can Achieve

By uploading your data to Vela, you can:
- [ ] **Analyse every customer interaction** automatically
- [ ] **Identify patterns and trends** across your team
- [ ] **Spot training opportunities** for agents
- [ ] **Track customer satisfaction** over time
- [ ] **Generate insights** that improve your business

---

## 🚀 Choose Your Upload Method

### Option 1: Manual Upload (Recommended for New Users)
**Best for**: Getting started quickly with existing call files

#### Step-by-Step Process

![ Upload](../img/screenshots/data_upload/upload.png)
![ Upload](../img/screenshots/data_upload/upload2.png)
![ Upload](../img/screenshots/data_upload/upload3.png)

- [ ] **Go to "Calls"** in the left sidebar
- [ ] **Click "Upload"** button
- [ ] **Select your call files** - We support mp3,wave & zip formats (bulk upload)
- [ ] **Click "Upload"** and wait for processing

> 💡 **Why this matters**: You can start analyzing your data immediately without any technical setup.

### Option 2: FTP Integration (For Larger Organisations)
**Best for**: Organisations with automated call recording systems


#### Setup Process
- [ ] **Contact your Vela Account Manager** to set up FTP integration
- [ ] **Provide FTP credentials** for your call recording server
- [ ] **Configure automatic sync** - Data flows automatically

> 💡 **Why this matters**: Once set up, your data flows automatically without manual intervention.

---

## 📋 Supported Data Formats

### Call Recordings
| **Format Type** | **Supported Formats** | **File Size Limit** |
|-----------------|---------------------|-------------------|
| **Audio formats** | WAV, MP3 | Up to 1 GB per upload |
| **Batch uploads** | Multiple files at once / zipped files | Up to 3 GB per upload |

### Chat Data
| **Format Type** | **Supported Formats** | **Requirements** |
|-----------------|---------------------|------------------|
| **Text formats** | JSON | Structured data with timestamps |
| **Structured data** | Agent and customer messages | Sender, timestamp, message content |
| **Metadata** | Session information | Agent IDs, customer IDs |

### Data Requirements
- [ ] **Call recordings**: Clear audio quality for best transcription
- [ ] **Chat data**: Properly formatted with sender, timestamp, and message content
- [ ] **Metadata**: Agent information, call dates, customer IDs (if available)

---

## 🛠️ Getting Started with Manual Upload

Follow these simple steps to upload your call recordings and start analyzing customer interactions in Vela.

### Step 1: Prepare Your Files
Before uploading, ensure your files are ready for optimal processing:

- [ ] **Organize your call recordings** in a dedicated folder for easy access
- [ ] **Verify file formats** - We support WAV, MP3, and ZIP files for bulk uploads
- [ ] **Check file sizes** - Individual files should be under 1 GB for best performance
- [ ] **Ensure audio quality** - Clear recordings provide better transcription results
- [ ] **Optional**: Create a ZIP file containing multiple recordings for batch upload

> 💡 **Pro Tip**: Name your files descriptively (e.g., "Agent_John_Call_2024-01-15.wav") to help with organisation later.

### Step 2: Upload Your Data
Upload your files through Vela's interface:

- [ ] **Navigate to "Calls"** in the left sidebar of your Vela dashboard
- [ ] **Click the "Upload" button** in the top-right corner of the Calls page
- [ ] **Choose your upload method**:
  - **Single file**: Click "Choose File" and select individual recordings
  - **Multiple files**: Use "Batch Upload" to select multiple files at once
  - **Drag & Drop**: Simply drag files from your computer directly into the upload area
- [ ] **Review the upload summary** showing file names, sizes, and formats
- [ ] **Click "Upload"** to begin the upload process

> 🎯 **What happens next**: Your files will be securely uploaded and queued for processing.

### Step 3: Monitor Processing
Track the progress of your uploads and processing:

- [ ] **Watch the upload progress** - Real-time progress bars show upload status
- [ ] **Check processing status** in the Calls section - Files will show "Processing" status
- [ ] **Start analyzing** - Click on processed calls to view transcripts, insights, and analytics

> ⏱️ **Processing times**: Small files (< 10 MB) process in 15-30 minutes, larger files may take 1-2 hours.

### Step 4: Verify and Optimise
Ensure your data is ready for analysis:

- [ ] **Review transcriptions** for accuracy and completeness
- [ ] **Check metadata** - Agent information, timestamps, and call details
- [ ] **Explore insights** - View sentiment analysis, key topics, and performance metrics
- [ ] **Set up notifications** - Configure alerts for new uploads and processing completion

---

## 🔧 Setting Up Automated Uploads

### For Organisations with Existing Systems

| **Step** | **Action** | **Details** |
|----------|------------|-------------|
| **1** | **Contact your Vela Account Manager** | Provide system details and requirements |
| **2** | **Provide system details** | Call recording system type, data storage location, current data format |
| **3** | **Set up integration** | We'll configure the connection |
| **4** | **Test the connection** | Ensure data flows correctly |
| **5** | **Go live** | Automated uploads begin |

### Integration Options
| **Integration Type** | **Best For** | **Setup Complexity** |
|---------------------|--------------|---------------------|
| **FTP/SFTP servers** | Direct file transfer | Medium |
| **Cloud storage** | AWS S3, Google Cloud, Azure | Low |
| **API integration** | Custom data feeds | High |


---

## 🔌 API Integration for Developers

### Upload Call Recordings via API
For organisations with custom systems, use our API to upload data programmatically:

**Endpoint**: `https://api.botlhale.xyz/asr/async/upload/vela`

**Required Parameters**:
- `org_id` - Your organisation identifier
- `file` - Audio file (WAV, MP3, M4A, FLAC)
- `metadata` - Call information (optional)

**Example Request**:
```python
import requests

url = "https://api.botlhale.xyz/v1/asr/async/upload/vela"
headers = {
    "Authorization": "Bearer YOUR_API_TOKEN"
}

files = {
    'file': open('call_recording.wav', 'rb')
}

data = {
    'org_id': 'your_org_id',
    'metadata': '{"agent_id": "123", "customer_id": "456"}'
}

response = requests.post(url, headers=headers, files=files, data=data)
print(response.json())
```

### Upload Chat Data via API
**Endpoint**: `https://api.botlhale.xyz/chat/upload`

**Example Request**:
```python
import requests
import json

url = "https://api.botlhale.xyz/v1/chat/upload"
headers = {
    "Authorization": "Bearer YOUR_API_TOKEN",
    "Content-Type": "application/json"
}

chat_data = {
    "org_id": "your_org_id",
    "conversation": [
        {
            "sender": "agent",
            "message": "Hello, how can I help you today?",
            "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z",
        },
        {
            "sender": "customer",
            "message": "I have a question about my account",
            "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:31:00Z",
        }
    ]
}

response = requests.post(url, headers=headers, json=chat_data)
print(response.json())
```

---

## ⏱️ Data Processing Timeline

### Typical Processing Times
| **File Size** | **Processing Time** | **What Happens** |
|---------------|-------------------|------------------|
| **Small files** (< 10 MB) | **15-30 minutes** | Transcription, analysis, insights generation |
| **Medium files** (10-100 MB) | **30-60 minutes** | Full processing with detailed analysis |
| **Large files** (> 100 MB) | **1-2 hours** | Comprehensive analysis with all features |

### Factors Affecting Processing Time
- [ ] **File size** - Larger files take longer to process
- [ ] **Audio quality** - Clear audio processes faster
- [ ] **System load** - Peak times may be slower
- [ ] **Analysis depth** - More detailed analysis requires more time

---



### Troubleshooting Upload Issues
| **Problem** | **Common Cause** | **Solution** |
|-------------|------------------|--------------|
| **Upload fails** | File too large, unsupported format | Check file size and format requirements |
| **Processing fails** | Poor audio quality, corrupted file | Verify file integrity and audio quality |
| **Slow processing** | Large files, system load | Wait for completion or try during off-peak hours |

---

## 📊 Data Quality Best Practices

### Before Upload
- [ ] **Check audio quality** - Clear, audible recordings work best
- [ ] **Verify file formats** - Use supported formats for best results
- [ ] **Organize files** - Group related recordings together
- [ ] **Include metadata** - Agent IDs, customer IDs, timestamps

### After Upload
- [ ] **Review processing results** - Check for any issues
- [ ] **Verify data accuracy** - Ensure transcripts are correct
- [ ] **Monitor insights** - Look for patterns and trends
- [ ] **Optimise processes** - Improve efficiency over time

---

## 🔗 Next Steps

| **For Data Monitoring** | **For Analysis** |
|------------------------|------------------|
| [📊 Monitor Performance](./dashboard.md) | [📞 Analyse Calls](./calls.md) |

## 🆘 Need Help?

- 📧 **Contact Support**: support@botlhale.ai
- 📚 **Navigation Guide**: [Find the right documentation](./navigation-guide.md) for your needs
