docs/navigation-guide.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 0
---

# 🧭 Vela Documentation Navigation Guide

Welcome to Vela! This guide helps you find the right documentation based on your role and what you want to accomplish.

## 👥 Choose Your Path

### 🚀 **New to Vela? Start Here**
- **[Quick Start Guide](./quick-start.md)** - Get up and running in 5 minutes
- **[Data Upload Guide](./data-upload.md)** - Get your data into Vela
- **[Dashboard Setup](./dashboard.md)** - Monitor your team's performance

---

## 🔄 **By Workflow**

### 📤 **Data Management Workflow**
1. **[Data Upload](./data-upload.md)** - Get your data into Vela
2. **[Settings](./settings.md)** - Configure your organisation
3. **[Dashboard](./dashboard.md)** - Monitor data processing


### 📊 **Performance Monitoring Workflow**
1. **[Dashboard](./dashboard.md)** - Set up your monitoring view
2. **[Notifications](./notifications.md)** - Configure alerts
3. **[Agent Performance](./agents.md)** - Review individual performance
4. **[Reports](./reports.md)** - Generate insights for stakeholders

### 🎯 **Quality Assurance Workflow**
1. **[Smart Detector](./smart-detector-overview.md)** - Set up automated monitoring
2. **[Smart Search](./smart-search-guide.md)** - Create issue detection rules
3. **[Agent Scorecards](./agent-scorecard-guide.md)** - Build evaluation criteria
4. **[Call Analysis](./calls.md)** - Review specific interactions
5. **[Knowledge Base](./knowledge-base-guide.md)** - Provide agent resources



---

## 📚 **By Feature**

### 🎛️ **Core Platform Features**
- **[Dashboard](./dashboard.md)** - Performance monitoring and analytics
- **[Agent Performance](./agents.md)** - Team management and coaching
- **[Reports](./reports.md)** - Data analysis and insights
- **[Settings](./settings.md)** - Platform configuration

### 🔍 **Smart Detector Tools**
- **[Smart Detector Overview](./smart-detector-overview.md)** - Automated monitoring system
- **[Smart Search](./smart-search-guide.md)** - Issue detection and alerts
- **[Agent Scorecards](./agent-scorecard-guide.md)** - Performance evaluation
- **[Knowledge Base](./knowledge-base-guide.md)** - Agent resources and training

### 📞 **Interaction Analysis**
- **[Call Analysis](./calls.md)** - Voice interaction insights
- **[Chat Analysis](./chats.md)** - Digital conversation analysis
- **[Notifications](./notifications.md)** - Alert management

### 🔧 **Technical Features**
- **[Data Upload](./data-upload.md)** - Data management and processing
- **[Settings](./settings.md)** - User and organisation management

---

## 🆘 **Need Help?**

### 📞 **Support Options**
- **Email Support**: support@botlhale.ai
- **API Support**: api-support@botlhale.ai
- **Video Tutorials**: Available on the homepage

### 🔍 **Finding Specific Information**
- **Use the search bar** at the top of the documentation
- **Check the sidebar** for organized topic categories
- **Follow the "Next Steps"** links in each guide
- **Review the "Need Help?"** sections for specific assistance

### 📖 **Documentation Tips**
- **Start with Quick Start** if you're new to Vela
- **Use the workflow sequences** above for complete processes
- **Follow the feature groupings** for specific functionality
- **Check troubleshooting sections** if you encounter issues

---

## 🎯 **Quick Reference**

| **I want to...** | **Start with...** |
|------------------|-------------------|
| **Get started quickly** | [Quick Start Guide](./quick-start.md) |
| **Upload my data** | [Data Upload Guide](./data-upload.md) |
| **Monitor my team** | [Dashboard Guide](./dashboard.md) |
| **Coach my agents** | [Agent Performance](./agents.md) |
| **Generate reports** | [Reports Guide](./reports.md) |

| **Configure alerts** | [Notifications Guide](./notifications.md) |
| **Analyse calls** | [Call Analysis](./calls.md) |
| **Set up quality monitoring** | [Smart Detector](./smart-detector-overview.md) |
| **Manage my account** | [Settings Guide](./settings.md) |

Commit message:

docs: remove assumptions about timing and performance

docs/navigation-guide.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 0
---

# 🧭 Vela Documentation Navigation Guide

Welcome to Vela! This guide helps you find the right documentation based on your role and what you want to accomplish.

## 🎯 What is Vela?

**Vela is a call analysis tool** that helps you improve your call centre performance by analyzing customer interactions. Here's what you need to know:

### 📞 **How Vela Works**
- Provides insights to improve future customer interactions

### 🔍 **What Vela Does**
- **Analyzes call recordings** for sentiment, quality, and compliance
- **Evaluates agent performance** with AI-powered scoring
- **Identifies patterns** in customer complaints and satisfaction
- **Generates insights** to guide training and process improvements
- **Provides automated alerts** when issues are detected in analyzed calls

### 🎯 **Best Use Cases**
- **Quality assurance** and compliance monitoring
- **Agent training** and performance improvement
- **Customer experience** analysis and optimization
- **Process improvement** based on call insights
- **Trend analysis** and strategic planning

## 👥 Choose Your Path

### 🚀 **New to Vela? Start Here**
- **[Quick Start Guide](./quick-start.md)** - Get up and running in 5 minutes
- **[Data Upload Guide](./data-upload.md)** - Get your data into Vela
- **[Dashboard Setup](./dashboard.md)** - Monitor your team's performance

---

## 🔄 **By Workflow**

### 📤 **Data Management Workflow**
1. **[Data Upload](./data-upload.md)** - Get your data into Vela
2. **[Settings](./settings.md)** - Configure your organisation
3. **[Dashboard](./dashboard.md)** - Monitor data processing


### 📊 **Performance Monitoring Workflow**
1. **[Dashboard](./dashboard.md)** - Set up your monitoring view
2. **[Notifications](./notifications.md)** - Configure alerts
3. **[Agent Performance](./agents.md)** - Review individual performance
4. **[Reports](./reports.md)** - Generate insights for stakeholders

### 🎯 **Quality Assurance Workflow**
1. **[Smart Detector](./smart-detector-overview.md)** - Set up automated monitoring
2. **[Smart Search](./smart-search-guide.md)** - Create issue detection rules
3. **[Agent Scorecards](./agent-scorecard-guide.md)** - Build evaluation criteria
4. **[Call Analysis](./calls.md)** - Review specific interactions
5. **[Knowledge Base](./knowledge-base-guide.md)** - Provide agent resources



---

## 📚 **By Feature**

### 🎛️ **Core Platform Features**
- **[Dashboard](./dashboard.md)** - Performance monitoring and analytics
- **[Agent Performance](./agents.md)** - Team management and coaching
- **[Reports](./reports.md)** - Data analysis and insights
- **[Settings](./settings.md)** - Platform configuration

### 🔍 **Smart Detector Tools**
- **[Smart Detector Overview](./smart-detector-overview.md)** - Automated monitoring system
- **[Smart Search](./smart-search-guide.md)** - Issue detection and alerts
- **[Agent Scorecards](./agent-scorecard-guide.md)** - Performance evaluation
- **[Knowledge Base](./knowledge-base-guide.md)** - Agent resources and training

### 📞 **Interaction Analysis**
- **[Call Analysis](./calls.md)** - Voice interaction insights
- **[Chat Analysis](./chats.md)** - Digital conversation analysis
- **[Notifications](./notifications.md)** - Alert management

### 🔧 **Technical Features**
- **[Data Upload](./data-upload.md)** - Data management and processing
- **[Settings](./settings.md)** - User and organisation management

---

## 🆘 **Need Help?**

### 📞 **Support Options**
- **Email Support**: support@botlhale.ai
- **API Support**: api-support@botlhale.ai
- **Video Tutorials**: Available on the homepage

### 🔍 **Finding Specific Information**
- **Use the search bar** at the top of the documentation
- **Check the sidebar** for organized topic categories
- **Follow the "Next Steps"** links in each guide
- **Review the "Need Help?"** sections for specific assistance

### 📖 **Documentation Tips**
- **Start with Quick Start** if you're new to Vela
- **Use the workflow sequences** above for complete processes
- **Follow the feature groupings** for specific functionality
- **Check troubleshooting sections** if you encounter issues

---

## 🎯 **Quick Reference**

| **I want to...** | **Start with...** |
|------------------|-------------------|
| **Get started** | [Quick Start Guide](./quick-start.md) |
| **Upload my data** | [Data Upload Guide](./data-upload.md) |
| **Monitor my team** | [Dashboard Guide](./dashboard.md) |
| **Coach my agents** | [Agent Performance](./agents.md) |
| **Generate reports** | [Reports Guide](./reports.md) |

| **Configure alerts** | [Notifications Guide](./notifications.md) |
| **Analyse calls** | [Call Analysis](./calls.md) |
| **Set up quality monitoring** | [Smart Detector](./smart-detector-overview.md) |
| **Manage my account** | [Settings Guide](./settings.md) |
