docs/quick-start.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 0
---

# 🚀 Get Started with Vela in 5 Minutes

Welcome to Vela! This guide will help you start analysing your call centre data and improving customer experience immediately.

> 💡 **What is Vela?** Vela is a **call analysis tool** that provides comprehensive insights from your call data to help you improve customer interactions.

## What You'll Achieve

By the end of this guide, you'll be able to:
- ✅ **Monitor your team's performance** with comprehensive call analytics
- ✅ **Identify customer pain points** automatically from call recordings
- ✅ **Generate insights** to improve customer satisfaction
- ✅ **Track agent performance** with AI-powered scoring

---

## 📋 Quick Setup Checklist

### Step 1: Set Up Your Dashboard (2 minutes)
**Goal**: Create a personalized view of your most important metrics

- [ ] **Log in** to your Vela platform
- [ ] **Click "Dashboard"** in the left sidebar
- [ ] **Click "Customise"** in the top-right corner
- [ ] **Select your team** from the "View By" dropdown
- [ ] **Choose "All" interactions** to see both calls and chats
- [ ] **Set your date range** (try "This Month" to start)
- [ ] **Add these key metrics**:
  - [ ] Agent Distribution (see who's handling calls)
  - [ ] Average Call Duration (identify efficiency issues)
  - [ ] Agent Scores (spot training opportunities)
  - [ ] Customer Sentiment (gauge satisfaction)
- [ ] **Click "Save"** to apply your settings

![Dashboard Setup - Screenshot showing the Vela dashboard customization interface with team selection and metric configuration options](../img/screenshots/dashboard01.png)

> 💡 **Why this matters**: Your dashboard becomes your command centre for monitoring team performance and customer satisfaction at a glance.

### Step 2: Upload Your First Data (2 minutes)
**Goal**: Get your call data into Vela for analysis

#### Option A: Manual Upload (Recommended for new users)
- [ ] **Go to "Calls"** in the left sidebar
- [ ] **Click "Upload"**
- [ ] **Select your call files**
- [ ] **Click "Upload"** and wait for processing

#### Option B: FTP Integration (For larger organisations)
- [ ] Contact your Vela Account Manager to set up automated uploads

> 💡 **Why this matters**: Once your data is uploaded, Vela analyses every interaction for insights you can't get manually.

### Step 3: Review Your First Insights (1 minute)
**Goal**: See immediate value from your data

- [ ] **Go to "Calls"** to see your uploaded interactions
- [ ] **Click on any call** to view detailed analysis:
  - [ ] **Full transcript** with sentiment analysis
  - [ ] **Agent performance metrics** (AI-powered scoring)
  - [ ] **Customer satisfaction insights**
  - [ ] **Automated alerts** for important moments

> 💡 **Why this matters**: You'll immediately see patterns and issues that would take hours to identify manually.

### Step 4: Set Up Smart Monitoring (Optional)
**Goal**: Automatically detect important events and issues

- [ ] **Go to "Smart Detector" → "Smart Search"**
- [ ] **Click "Create"**
- [ ] **Name your search** (e.g., "Customer Complaints")
- [ ] **Add example phrases** like "I'm not happy" or "This is terrible"
- [ ] **Set scope** to your organisation or specific team
- [ ] **Click "Create"** to start monitoring

> 💡 **Why this matters**: Vela can alert you when customers express dissatisfaction, helping you respond proactively.

---

## 🎉 You're All Set!

**Congratulations!** You're now ready to transform your call centre operations with AI-powered insights. Vela processes your interactions and provides actionable insights to improve customer experience and team performance.

You've just unlocked the superpowers that will make your call centre unstoppable! 🚀

---

## What's Next?

| **For Daily Operations** | **For Team Management** | **For Advanced Users** |
|--------------------------|-------------------------|------------------------|
| [📊 Monitor daily](./dashboard.md) | [👥 Train agents](./agents.md) | [🔍 Set up Smart Monitoring](./smart-detector-overview.md) |
| [🔔 Review alerts](./notifications.md) | [📈 Generate reports](./reports.md) |

> 💡 **Need help finding the right guide?** Check out our [Navigation Guide](./navigation-guide.md) to find documentation based on your role and goals.

## Need Help?

- 📧 **Contact Support**: support@botlhale.ai
- 🎥 **Video Tutorials**: Available on the homepage
- 📚 **Navigation Guide**: [Find the right documentation](./navigation-guide.md) for your needs

Commit message:

docs: remove emojis and improve professional tone across all documentation
- Remove all emojis from headers, navigation links, and content
- Refine language to be more natural and professional

docs/quick-start.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 0
---

# Get Started with Vela in 5 Minutes

Welcome to Vela! This guide will help you start analysing your call centre data and improving customer experience immediately.

Every call centre manager knows the challenge - you're dealing with agents, customers, and the constant pressure to improve performance. Vela helps you understand what's really happening in your customer interactions so you can make informed decisions.

> **What is Vela?** Vela is a **call analysis tool** that provides comprehensive insights from your call data to help you improve customer interactions.

## What You'll Achieve

By the end of this guide, you'll be able to:
- ✅ **Monitor your team's performance** with comprehensive call analytics
- ✅ **Identify customer pain points** automatically from call recordings
- ✅ **Generate insights** to improve customer satisfaction
- ✅ **Track agent performance** with AI-powered scoring

The best part? This guide takes about 5 minutes to complete. We've made it as straightforward as possible because we understand you have calls to handle and agents to manage.

---

## Quick Setup Checklist

### Step 1: Set Up Your Dashboard (2 minutes)
**Goal**: Create a personalized view of your most important metrics

The dashboard is your command centre - it gives you a comprehensive view of your entire operation at a glance.

- [ ] **Log in** to your Vela platform
- [ ] **Click "Dashboard"** in the left sidebar
- [ ] **Click "Customise"** in the top-right corner
- [ ] **Select your team** from the "View By" dropdown
- [ ] **Choose "All" interactions** to see both calls and chats
- [ ] **Set your date range** (try "This Month" to start)
- [ ] **Add these key metrics**:
  - [ ] Agent Distribution (see who's handling calls)
  - [ ] Average Call Duration (identify efficiency issues)
  - [ ] Agent Scores (spot training opportunities)
  - [ ] Customer Sentiment (gauge satisfaction)
- [ ] **Click "Save"** to apply your settings

![Dashboard Setup - Screenshot showing the Vela dashboard customization interface with team selection and metric configuration options](../img/screenshots/dashboard01.png)

> **Why this matters**: Your dashboard becomes your command centre for monitoring team performance and customer satisfaction at a glance.

### Step 2: Upload Your First Data (2 minutes)
**Goal**: Get your call data into Vela for analysis

Getting your call data into Vela is straightforward. We offer two approaches depending on your needs.

#### Option A: Manual Upload (Recommended for new users)
Perfect for getting started or testing the system.

- [ ] **Go to "Calls"** in the left sidebar
- [ ] **Click "Upload"**
- [ ] **Select your call files**
- [ ] **Click "Upload"** and wait for processing

#### Option B: FTP Integration (For larger organisations)
Ideal for organisations handling hundreds of calls daily.

- [ ] Contact your Vela Account Manager to set up automated uploads

> **Why this matters**: Once your data is uploaded, Vela analyses every interaction for insights you can't get manually.

### Step 3: Review Your First Insights (1 minute)
**Goal**: See immediate value from your data

This is where you'll see the real value. You'll discover patterns and insights about your calls that weren't visible before.

- [ ] **Go to "Calls"** to see your uploaded interactions
- [ ] **Click on any call** to view detailed analysis:
  - [ ] **Full transcript** with sentiment analysis
  - [ ] **Agent performance metrics** (AI-powered scoring)
  - [ ] **Customer satisfaction insights**
  - [ ] **Automated alerts** for important moments

> **Why this matters**: You'll immediately see patterns and issues that would take hours to identify manually.

### Step 4: Set Up Smart Monitoring (Optional)
**Goal**: Automatically detect important events and issues

This is an advanced feature that lets you set up automated monitoring for specific events in your calls.

- [ ] **Go to "Smart Detector" → "Smart Search"**
- [ ] **Click "Create"**
- [ ] **Name your search** (e.g., "Customer Complaints")
- [ ] **Add example phrases** like "I'm not happy" or "This is terrible"
- [ ] **Set scope** to your organisation or specific team
- [ ] **Click "Create"** to start monitoring

> **Why this matters**: Vela can alert you when customers can express dissatisfaction, helping you respond proactively.

---

## 🎉 You're All Set!

**Congratulations!** You're now ready to transform your call centre operations with AI-powered insights. Vela processes your interactions and provides actionable insights to improve customer experience and team performance.

Call centres face unique challenges - managing customer expectations, supporting agents, and driving continuous improvement. Vela helps you see what's really happening so you can make informed decisions.

You've just unlocked the capabilities that will make your call centre more effective!

---

## What's Next?

| **For Daily Operations** | **For Team Management** | **For Advanced Users** |
|--------------------------|-------------------------|------------------------|
| [Monitor daily](./dashboard.md) | [Train agents](./agents.md) | [Set up Smart Monitoring](./smart-detector-overview.md) |
| [Review alerts](./notifications.md) | [Generate reports](./reports.md) |

> **Need help finding the right guide?** Check out our [Navigation Guide](./navigation-guide.md) to find documentation based on your role and goals.

## Need Help?

- 📧 **Contact Support**: support@botlhale.ai
- 🎥 **Video Tutorials**: Available on the homepage
- **Navigation Guide**: [Find the right documentation](./navigation-guide.md) for your needs
