docs/smart-detector-overview.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Automate Issue Detection and Agent Evaluation

Use Smart Detector to automatically monitor your customer interactions, evaluate agent performance, and build a knowledge base that improves your team's effectiveness. This guide shows you how to set up intelligent monitoring that catches issues before they become problems.

## What You Can Achieve

With Smart Detector, you can:
- **Automatically detect customer complaints** and respond proactively
- **Evaluate agent performance** with AI-powered scorecards
- **Build a searchable knowledge base** for your team
- **Monitor compliance** and quality standards automatically
- **Identify training opportunities** before they impact customer satisfaction

## Three Powerful Tools for Your Team

### Smart Search: Catch Issues Early
Automatically detect important events in your customer interactions (see [Smart Search Guide](./smart-search-guide.md) for detailed setup):

- **Customer complaints** - Get alerts when customers express dissatisfaction
- **Compliance violations** - Monitor for regulatory or policy breaches
- **Service quality issues** - Identify patterns that affect customer experience
- **Training opportunities** - Spot areas where agents need support

### Agent Scorecard: Improve Performance Systematically
Evaluate and improve agent performance with AI-powered assessments (see [Agent Scorecard Guide](./agent-scorecard-guide.md) for detailed setup):

- **Automated evaluations** - Score every interaction consistently
- **Performance tracking** - Monitor improvement over time
- **Training identification** - Spot specific areas for coaching
- **Best practice recognition** - Learn from top performers

### Knowledge Base: Empower Your Team
Build a smart, searchable repository of company information (see [Knowledge Base Guide](./knowledge-base-guide.md) for detailed setup):

- **Document upload** - Add policies, procedures, and training materials
- **Smart search** - Find relevant information quickly
- **Agent access** - Provide real-time support during calls
- **Continuous improvement** - Update knowledge based on interactions

## Getting Started with Smart Search

### Step 1: Create Your First Search
1. **Go to "Smart Detector" → "Smart Search"**
2. **Click "Create"** to start a new search
3. **Name your search** (e.g., "Customer Complaints")
4. **Add example phrases** that indicate the issue:
   - "I'm not happy with this service"
   - "This is terrible"
   - "I want to speak to a manager"
   - "I'm going to cancel my account"
5. **Set the scope** - Choose organization-wide or specific teams
6. **Click "Create"** to start monitoring

### Step 2: Monitor Results
- **Review matches** in the Smart Search results
- **Investigate flagged calls** to understand the context
- **Take action** based on the insights
- **Refine your search** based on what you learn

## Setting Up Agent Scorecards

### Step 1: Define Evaluation Criteria
1. **Go to "Smart Detector" → "Agent Scorecard"**
2. **Create evaluation checklists** for different scenarios
3. **Set performance standards** for each criterion
4. **Define scoring weights** based on importance

### Step 2: Monitor Performance
- **Review automated scores** for each agent
- **Identify improvement areas** from the data
- **Plan coaching sessions** based on specific weaknesses
- **Track progress** over time

## Building Your Knowledge Base

### Step 1: Upload Company Documents
1. **Go to "Smart Detector" → "Knowledge Base"**
2. **Upload important documents**:
   - Company policies and procedures
   - Product information and FAQs
   - Training materials and scripts
   - Compliance guidelines
3. **Organize content** with tags and categories
4. **Set access permissions** for different teams

### Step 2: Enable Agent Access
- **Train agents** on how to use the knowledge base
- **Integrate with call workflows** for easy access
- **Monitor usage** to identify knowledge gaps
- **Update content** based on common questions

## Real-World Use Cases

### Customer Service Excellence
**Goal**: Improve customer satisfaction and reduce complaints

**Smart Search Setup**:
- Monitor for complaint indicators
- Track customer sentiment changes
- Identify service quality issues

**Agent Scorecard Focus**:
- Empathy and understanding
- Problem resolution skills
- Professional communication

**Knowledge Base Content**:
- Product troubleshooting guides
- Customer service best practices
- Escalation procedures

### Compliance and Quality Assurance
**Goal**: Ensure regulatory compliance and maintain quality standards

**Smart Search Setup**:
- Monitor for compliance violations
- Track required disclosures
- Identify quality issues

**Agent Scorecard Focus**:
- Policy adherence
- Documentation accuracy
- Regulatory compliance

**Knowledge Base Content**:
- Compliance guidelines
- Quality standards
- Audit procedures

### Training and Development
**Goal**: Improve team performance through targeted training

**Smart Search Setup**:
- Identify knowledge gaps
- Track training effectiveness
- Monitor skill development

**Agent Scorecard Focus**:
- Specific skill assessments
- Training completion tracking
- Performance improvement

**Knowledge Base Content**:
- Training materials
- Skill development guides
- Best practice examples

## Best Practices for Smart Detector

### Smart Search Optimization
- **Start with specific phrases** - Be precise about what you're looking for
- **Test your searches** - Review results to ensure accuracy
- **Refine over time** - Adjust based on what you learn
- **Set appropriate scope** - Don't overwhelm with too many alerts

### Agent Scorecard Effectiveness
- **Focus on actionable criteria** - Measure what agents can improve
- **Provide clear feedback** - Help agents understand their scores
- **Track trends** - Look for patterns over time
- **Celebrate improvements** - Recognize progress and achievements

### Knowledge Base Management
- **Keep content current** - Update information regularly
- **Organize logically** - Make information easy to find
- **Encourage usage** - Train agents on effective searching
- **Monitor effectiveness** - Track which content is most useful

## Daily Smart Detector Routine

### Morning Review (10 minutes)
1. **Check Smart Search alerts** - Review any new matches
2. **Review agent scores** - Identify anyone needing attention
3. **Update knowledge base** - Add new information as needed

### Weekly Analysis (30 minutes)
1. **Analyze search patterns** - Look for trends in issues
2. **Review scorecard trends** - Track team improvement
3. **Update search criteria** - Refine based on learnings
4. **Plan training sessions** - Based on identified needs

### Monthly Planning (1 hour)
1. **Generate comprehensive reports** - Full team analysis
2. **Update knowledge base** - Major content revisions
3. **Plan strategic improvements** - Long-term development goals
4. **Review and adjust** - Refine all Smart Detector settings

## Troubleshooting Common Issues

### Smart Search Not Finding Matches
**Problem**: Searches aren't detecting expected issues
**Solutions**:
- Review and refine your search phrases
- Check if the scope is too narrow
- Verify that data is being processed correctly
- Test with different example phrases

### Agent Scorecard Inconsistencies
**Problem**: Scores seem inconsistent or unfair
**Solutions**:
- Review evaluation criteria for clarity
- Check if criteria are appropriate for all scenarios
- Ensure scoring weights are balanced
- Provide training on evaluation standards

### Knowledge Base Not Being Used
**Problem**: Agents aren't accessing the knowledge base
**Solutions**:
- Train agents on how to use the system
- Ensure content is relevant and current
- Make access easier during calls
- Provide incentives for knowledge base usage

## Next Steps

- **[Monitor Performance](./dashboard.md)** - Use dashboard to track Smart Detector insights
- **[Improve Agent Performance](./agents.md)** - Apply Smart Detector findings to coaching
- **[Generate Reports](./reports.md)** - Create reports on Smart Detector effectiveness
- **[Create Smart Searches](./smart-search-guide.md)** - Set up automated issue detection
- **[Build Agent Scorecards](./agent-scorecard-guide.md)** - Create evaluation systems
- **[Build Knowledge Base](./knowledge-base-guide.md)** - Organize company information

## Need Help?

- **Contact Support**: support@botlhale.ai
- **Smart Detector Training**: Ask about advanced configuration options
- **Best Practice Sharing**: Get help with effective monitoring strategies
- **Integration Support**: Get help connecting Smart Detector tools
- **Configuration Assistance**: Help with setting up effective monitoring

Commit message:

docs: Makes documentation more engaging and user-friendly while maintaining professional quality and comprehensive guidance.

docs/smart-detector-overview.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Automate Issue Detection and Agent Evaluation

What if you could catch customer complaints before they become escalations? Or spot training gaps before they impact your team's performance? Smart Detector does the heavy lifting for you, automatically monitoring interactions, evaluating agents, and building a knowledge base that makes your team unstoppable.

## What You Can Achieve

Smart Detector is like having a super-powered assistant that never sleeps. Here's what it does for you:

**Catch complaints before they explode** - Automatically detect customer dissatisfaction and respond proactively
**Score agents objectively** - Use AI-powered evaluations that are fair and consistent
**Build your team's brain** - Create a searchable knowledge base that grows smarter over time
**Stay compliant effortlessly** - Monitor quality standards without manual oversight
**Spot training needs early** - Identify opportunities before they hurt customer satisfaction

## Three Powerful Tools for Your Team

### Smart Search: Catch Issues Early
Automatically detect important events in your customer interactions (get the full setup guide in [Smart Search](./smart-search-guide.md)):

- **Customer complaints** - Get alerts when customers express dissatisfaction
- **Compliance violations** - Monitor for regulatory or policy breaches
- **Service quality issues** - Identify patterns that affect customer experience
- **Training opportunities** - Spot areas where agents need support

### Agent Scorecard: Improve Performance Systematically
Evaluate and improve agent performance with AI-powered assessments (learn the ropes in [Agent Scorecard](./agent-scorecard-guide.md)):

- **Automated evaluations** - Score every interaction consistently
- **Performance tracking** - Monitor improvement over time
- **Training identification** - Spot specific areas for coaching
- **Best practice recognition** - Learn from top performers

### Knowledge Base: Empower Your Team
Build a smart, searchable repository of company information (master it in [Knowledge Base](./knowledge-base-guide.md)):

- **Document upload** - Add policies, procedures, and training materials
- **Smart search** - Find relevant information quickly
- **Agent access** - Provide real-time support during calls
- **Continuous improvement** - Update knowledge based on interactions

## Getting Started with Smart Search

### Step 1: Create Your First Search
1. **Go to "Smart Detector" → "Smart Search"**
2. **Click "Create"** to start a new search
3. **Name your search** (e.g., "Customer Complaints")
4. **Add example phrases** that indicate the issue:
   - "I'm not happy with this service"
   - "This is terrible"
   - "I want to speak to a manager"
   - "I'm going to cancel my account"
5. **Set the scope** - Choose organization-wide or specific teams
6. **Click "Create"** to start monitoring

### Step 2: Monitor Results
- **Review matches** in the Smart Search results
- **Investigate flagged calls** to understand the context
- **Take action** based on the insights
- **Refine your search** based on what you learn

## Setting Up Agent Scorecards

### Step 1: Define Evaluation Criteria
1. **Go to "Smart Detector" → "Agent Scorecard"**
2. **Create evaluation checklists** for different scenarios
3. **Set performance standards** for each criterion
4. **Define scoring weights** based on importance

### Step 2: Monitor Performance
- **Review automated scores** for each agent
- **Identify improvement areas** from the data
- **Plan coaching sessions** based on specific weaknesses
- **Track progress** over time

## Building Your Knowledge Base

### Step 1: Upload Company Documents
1. **Go to "Smart Detector" → "Knowledge Base"**
2. **Upload important documents**:
   - Company policies and procedures
   - Product information and FAQs
   - Training materials and scripts
   - Compliance guidelines
3. **Organize content** with tags and categories
4. **Set access permissions** for different teams

### Step 2: Enable Agent Access
- **Train agents** on how to use the knowledge base
- **Integrate with call workflows** for easy access
- **Monitor usage** to identify knowledge gaps
- **Update content** based on common questions

## Real-World Use Cases

### Customer Service Excellence
**Goal**: Improve customer satisfaction and reduce complaints

**Smart Search Setup**:
- Monitor for complaint indicators
- Track customer sentiment changes
- Identify service quality issues

**Agent Scorecard Focus**:
- Empathy and understanding
- Problem resolution skills
- Professional communication

**Knowledge Base Content**:
- Product troubleshooting guides
- Customer service best practices
- Escalation procedures

### Compliance and Quality Assurance
**Goal**: Ensure regulatory compliance and maintain quality standards

**Smart Search Setup**:
- Monitor for compliance violations
- Track required disclosures
- Identify quality issues

**Agent Scorecard Focus**:
- Policy adherence
- Documentation accuracy
- Regulatory compliance

**Knowledge Base Content**:
- Compliance guidelines
- Quality standards
- Audit procedures

### Training and Development
**Goal**: Improve team performance through targeted training

**Smart Search Setup**:
- Identify knowledge gaps
- Track training effectiveness
- Monitor skill development

**Agent Scorecard Focus**:
- Specific skill assessments
- Training completion tracking
- Performance improvement

**Knowledge Base Content**:
- Training materials
- Skill development guides
- Best practice examples

## Best Practices for Smart Detector

### Smart Search Optimization
- **Start with specific phrases** - Be precise about what you're looking for
- **Test your searches** - Review results to ensure accuracy
- **Refine over time** - Adjust based on what you learn
- **Set appropriate scope** - Don't overwhelm with too many alerts

### Agent Scorecard Effectiveness
- **Focus on actionable criteria** - Measure what agents can improve
- **Provide clear feedback** - Help agents understand their scores
- **Track trends** - Look for patterns over time
- **Celebrate improvements** - Recognize progress and achievements

### Knowledge Base Management
- **Keep content current** - Update information regularly
- **Organize logically** - Make information easy to find
- **Encourage usage** - Train agents on effective searching
- **Monitor effectiveness** - Track which content is most useful

## Daily Smart Detector Routine

### Morning Review (10 minutes)
1. **Check Smart Search alerts** - Review any new matches
2. **Review agent scores** - Identify anyone needing attention
3. **Update knowledge base** - Add new information as needed

### Weekly Analysis (30 minutes)
1. **Analyze search patterns** - Look for trends in issues
2. **Review scorecard trends** - Track team improvement
3. **Update search criteria** - Refine based on learnings
4. **Plan training sessions** - Based on identified needs

### Monthly Planning (1 hour)
1. **Generate comprehensive reports** - Full team analysis
2. **Update knowledge base** - Major content revisions
3. **Plan strategic improvements** - Long-term development goals
4. **Review and adjust** - Refine all Smart Detector settings

## Troubleshooting Common Issues

### Smart Search Not Finding Matches
**Problem**: Searches aren't detecting expected issues
**Solutions**:
- Review and refine your search phrases
- Check if the scope is too narrow
- Verify that data is being processed correctly
- Test with different example phrases

### Agent Scorecard Inconsistencies
**Problem**: Scores seem inconsistent or unfair
**Solutions**:
- Review evaluation criteria for clarity
- Check if criteria are appropriate for all scenarios
- Ensure scoring weights are balanced
- Provide training on evaluation standards

### Knowledge Base Not Being Used
**Problem**: Agents aren't accessing the knowledge base
**Solutions**:
- Train agents on how to use the system
- Ensure content is relevant and current
- Make access easier during calls
- Provide incentives for knowledge base usage

## Next Steps

- **[Monitor Performance](./dashboard.md)** - Use dashboard to track Smart Detector insights
- **[Improve Agent Performance](./agents.md)** - Apply Smart Detector findings to coaching
- **[Generate Reports](./reports.md)** - Create reports on Smart Detector effectiveness
- **[Create Smart Searches](./smart-search-guide.md)** - Set up automated issue detection
- **[Build Agent Scorecards](./agent-scorecard-guide.md)** - Create evaluation systems
- **[Build Knowledge Base](./knowledge-base-guide.md)** - Organize company information

## Need Help?

**Smart Detector giving you trouble? Let's fix that:**

- **Contact Support**: support@botlhale.ai
- **Smart Detector Training**: Ask about advanced configuration options
- **Best Practice Sharing**: Get help with effective monitoring strategies
- **Integration Support**: Get help connecting Smart Detector tools
- **Configuration Assistance**: Help with setting up effective monitoring
